import numpy as np
import tensorflow as tf
from tensorflow import keras
from tensorflow.keras import Sequential
from tensorflow.keras.layers import Dense, Flatten
from sklearn import preprocessing

(X_train, Y_train), (X_test, Y_test) = keras.datasets.boston_housing.load_data()

print("Training data shape:", X_train.shape)
print("Test data shape:", X_test.shape)
print("Train output data shape:", Y_train.shape)
print("Actual Test output data shape:", Y_test.shape)

##Normalize the data
X_train=preprocessing.normalize(X_train)
X_test=preprocessing.normalize(X_test)

model = Sequential()
model.add(Dense(128,activation='relu',input_shape= X_train[0].shape))
model.add(Dense(64,activation='relu'))
model.add(Dense(32,activation='relu'))
model.add(Dense(1))

model.summary()

model.compile(loss='mse',optimizer='rmsprop',metrics=['mae'])

history = model.fit(X_train,Y_train,epochs=100,batch_size=1,verbose=1,validation_data=(X_test,Y_test))

# Predictions
y_pred=model.predict(X_test)








Theory-
Title of the Assignment: Linear regression by using Deep Neural network: Implement Boston housing
price. prediction problem by Linear regression using Deep Neural network. Use Boston House price
prediction dataset.
Objective of the Assignment: Students should be able to perform Linear regression by using
Deep Neural network on Boston House Dataset.
Prerequisite:
1. Basic of programming language
2. Concept of Linear Regression
3. Concept of Deep Neural Network
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents for Theory:
1. What is Linear Regression
2. Example of Linear Regression
3. Concept of Deep Neural Network
4. How Deep Neural Network Work
5. Code Explanation with Output
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SNJB’s Late Sau. K.B. Jain College Of Engineering
What is Linear Regression?
Linear regression is a statistical approach that is commonly used to model the relationship between a
dependent variable and one or more independent variables. It assumes a linear relationship between the
variables and uses mathematical methods to estimate the coefficients that best fit the data.
Deep neural networks are a type of machine learning algorithm that are modeled after the structure and
function of the human brain. They consist of multiple layers of interconnected neurons that process data
and learn from it to make predictions or classifications.
Linear regression using deep neural networks combines the principles of linear regression with the power
of deep learning algorithms. In this approach, the input features are passed through one or more layers of
neurons to extract features and then a linear regression model is applied to the output of the last layer to
make predictions. The weights and biases of the neural network are adjusted during training to optimize
the performance of the model.
This approach can be used for a variety of tasks, including predicting numerical values, such as stock
prices or housing prices, and classifying data into categories, such as detecting whether an image contains
a particular object or not. It is often used in fields such as finance, healthcare, and image recognition.
Example Of Linear Regression
A suitable example of linear regression using deep neural network would be predicting the price of a
house based on various features such as the size of the house, the number of bedrooms, the location, and
the age of the house.
In this example, the input features would be fed into a deep neural network, consisting of multiple layers
of interconnected neurons. The first few layers of the network would learn to extract features from the
input data, such as identifying patterns and correlations between the input features.
The output of the last layer would then be passed through a linear regression model, which would use the
learned features to predict the price of the house.
During training, the weights and biases of the neural network would be adjusted to minimize the
difference between the predicted price and the actual price of the house. This process is known as gradient
descent, and it involves iteratively adjusting the model's parameters until the optimal values are reached.
Once the model is trained, it can be used to predict the price of a new house based on its features. This
approach can be used in the real estate industry to provide accurate and reliable estimates of house prices,
which can help both buyers and sellers make informed decisions.
Concept of Deep Neural Network-
SNJB’s Late Sau. K.B. Jain College Of Engineering
A deep neural network is a type of machine learning algorithm that is modeled after the structure and
function of the human brain. It consists of multiple layers of interconnected nodes, or artificial neurons,
that process data and learn from it to make predictions or classifications.
Each layer of the network performs a specific type of processing on the data, such as identifying patterns
or correlations between features, and passes the results to the next layer. The layers closest to the input are
known as the "input layer", while the layers closest to the output are known as the "output layer".
The intermediate layers between the input and output layers are known as "hidden layers". These layers
are responsible for extracting increasingly complex features from the input data, and can be deep (i.e.,
containing many hidden layers) or shallow (i.e., containing only a few hidden layers).
Deep neural networks are trained using a process known as back propagation, which involves adjusting the
weights and biases of the nodes based on the error between the predicted output and the actual output.
This process is repeated for multiple iterations until the model reaches an optimal level of accuracy.
Deep neural networks are used in a variety of applications, such as image and speech recognition, natural
language processing, and recommendation systems. They are capable of learning from vast amounts of
data and can automatically extract features from raw data, making them a powerful tool for solving
complex problems in a wide range of domains.
How Deep Neural Network WorkBoston House Price Prediction is a common example used to illustrate how a deep neural network can
work for regression tasks. The goal of this task is to predict the price of a house in Boston based on
various features such as the number of rooms, crime rate, and accessibility to public transportation.
Here's how a deep neural network can work for Boston House Price Prediction:
1. Data preprocessing: The first step is to preprocess the data. This involves normalizing the input
features to have a mean of 0 and a standard deviation of 1, which helps the network learn more
efficiently. The dataset is then split into training and testing sets.
2. Model architecture: A deep neural network is then defined with multiple layers. The first layer is
the input layer, which takes in the normalized features. This is followed by several hidden layers,
which can be deep or shallow. The last layer is the output layer, which predicts the house price.
3. Model training: The model is then trained using the training set. During training, the weights and
biases of the nodes are adjusted based on the error between the predicted output and the actual
output. This is done using an optimization algorithm such as stochastic gradient descent.
4. Model evaluation: Once the model is trained, it is evaluated using the testing set. The
SNJB’s Late Sau. K.B. Jain College Of Engineering
performance of the model is measured using metrics such as mean squared error or mean absolute
error.
5. Model prediction: Finally, the trained model can be used to make predictions on new data, such as
predicting the price of a new house in Boston based on its features.
6. By using a deep neural network for Boston House Price Prediction, we can obtain accurate
predictions based on a large set of input features. This approach is scalable and can be used for
other regression tasks as well.
Boston House Price Prediction DatasetBoston House Price Prediction is a well-known dataset in machine learning and is often used to
demonstrate regression analysis techniques. The dataset contains information about 506 houses in Boston,
Massachusetts, USA. The goal is to predict the median value of owner-occupied homes in thousands of
dollars.
The dataset includes 13 input features, which are:
CRIM: per capita crime rate by town
ZN: proportion of residential land zoned for lots over 25,000 sq.ft.
INDUS: proportion of non-retail business acres per town
CHAS: Charles River dummy variable (1 if tract bounds river; 0 otherwise)
NOX: nitric oxides concentration (parts per 10 million)
RM: average number of rooms per dwelling
AGE: proportion of owner-occupied units built prior to 1940
DIS: weighted distances to five Boston employment centers
RAD: index of accessibility to radial highways
TAX: full-value property-tax rate per $10,000
PTRATIO: pupil-teacher ratio by town
B: 1000(Bk - 0.63)^2 where Bk is the proportion of black people by town
LSTAT: % lower status of the population
The output variable is the median value of owner-occupied homes in thousands of dollars (MEDV).
To predict the median value of owner-occupied homes, a regression model is trained on the dataset. The
model can be a simple linear regression model or a more complex model, such as a deep neural network.
After the model is trained, it can be used to predict the median value of owner-occupied homes based on
the input features. The model's accuracy can be evaluated using metrics such as mean squared error or
SNJB’s Late Sau. K.B. Jain College Of Engineering
mean absolute error.
Boston House Price Prediction is a example of regression analysis and is often used to teach machine
learning concepts. The dataset is also used in research to compare the performance of different regression
models.
